and at the heart of the new boat is this
trolling motor that we've designed
bit integrally into this kayak you can
see back here what we did is essentially
incorporate a large skipper that accepts
this motor so it becomes a seamless
integration of the motor into the kayak
now of course there are other kayaks out
there that have trolling motor is
attached but generally they're done with
two-by-four technology or somehow
strapped down to a rudder this one by
integrating it into the boat we make a
much more seamless and clean design and
something that really functions a lot
better as well now this is a 33-pound
thrust and kota trolling motor with a
weakness wedge propeller sort of their
standard item note that this is also set
up for saltwater so it's got a saltwater
coating on the outside it's got a
sacrificial anode so this thing is fully
saltwater k saltwater capable now the
biggest thing about this boat is when
you start integrating a trolling motor
and a battery into the boat the thing
becomes ungodly heavy so what we did is
made it completely modular so you can
see you've got a motor module here that
weighs 20 pounds and actually floats
this drops into the motor once you get
down to shore the same thing is true
with the battery so you can take the
battery as a separate element and simply
drop it into the battery box once you
get to shore saving yourself the hassle
trying to pull a hundred pound boat off
the roof of your car the motor once it
goes into the boat and we'll show this a
little bit more detail in the water the
motor simply plugs into this outlet on
the back of the boats all it is is
plug-and-play strap the motor in place
plug it in and you're good to go so out
front here we've got the battery box
centrally located in the boat to match
to optimize our trim within the battery
box is a circuit breaker just in case
there's an overload in the circuit
anywhere this will blow before anything
bad happens to the motor or the controls
this is the control panel of the boat
right here the control panel are really
only two controls one is your speed
control forward and reverse and the
other is a kill switch you attach the
kill switch to your life jacket and if
you do fall out of the boat this
automatically kills the entire power
system of the boat so the boat's not
going to go away from you this is the
key element though of this boat and what
it is is an infinitely variable speed
control connected to our maximized
trolling motor so first of all the
infinitely variable speed is really
important because as you're working on
trolling or something like that from a
kayak a typical 5 speed trolling motor
will push you too fast even speed 1 on a
typical trolling motor is way too fast
so this allows you to
eventually get it so the prop is barely
even visibly moving all the way up to
full speed which will push you along at
five and a half miles an hour or so also
the same thing is true in Reverse you
can go any infinite speed in Reverse and
really optimize the control of this boat
so you can really position yourself
anywhere you want you can position
yourself stationary and occurrence you
can cruise along the shoreline and the
beauty of this whole concept really is
that you don't have to use your hands at
all once you set your speed you are
entirely hands-free because your
steering is accomplished by these two
foot pedals which are connected to the
rudder in the back of the boat as you
can see the rudder is quite substantial
compared to what you're used to seeing
on a tie Act and the reason for this is
just awesome optimize our
maneuverability on this thing this is a
13 foot boat and it'll still turn on a
little over its length so it's extremely
maneuverable and that big rudder and
maneuverability combined with the spec
that you've got forward in Reverse makes
this thing so it can go just about
anywhere finally this boat is still a
kayak it's completely palatable as a
kayak with a paddle you don't need to
use the trolling motor if you don't want
to so you can simply remove the battery
and remove the motor and install this
element which is a simple scag once that
Skaggs installed andrea tracks out the
stern of the boat so that it paddles
quite nicely just like a prowler tried
at 13 per instance so it is a very
versatile craft and that you can paddle
it as a kayak or put in the battery and
motor around completely hands-free
you